Welcome to Eagle Forum Live, and here's your host Phyllis Schlafly. 
We are very excited to have with us today Doctor Thomas Sowell, distinguished economist, social critic, and political commentator. 
Doctor Soul is a senior fellow on public policy at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. This is a special Eagle Forum live with Phyllis Schlafly and of course her special guest today, Thomas Sowe. They have the whole hour, so please, we're not. 
Taking questions and comments from listeners today, our regular format continues next week right here on Eagle Forum live. Even informed citizens sometimes have a hard time getting through the fog of political rhetoric to decide if government policies are good or bad. Uh, they can get a lot of help from the writing of today's guest. He investigates the facts and examines similar policies, and then he applies common sense and logic. Doctor Tom. Soul is the author of more than 30 books, and we're going to talk today about his most recent book called Dismantling America, which is a collection of columns that showcase his views on political, cultural, economic, and legal issues. Welcome, Dr. Soul and tell us what is the meaning of the title of your newest book. 
I think that the current administration is doing more than simply Passing policies that are very questionable in themselves. What they're doing is changing the whole procedure by which the American government operates, and I think that's going to do long run damage even if the policies themselves get repealed. For example, this practice of passing enormously large and far reaching bills without any opportunity for the public to know what's in them or in some cases for even most members of Congress to know what's in them. Um, things like um The waivers, for example, they can give to certain companies from the provisions of the new healthcare law. Well, the ability to give waivers is the ability to withhold waivers, uh, and therefore to punish people who dare to speak out. A one insurance company recently said that they were going to have to raise premiums because of the Obamacare legislation. 
Well, they were immediately told by one of the cabinet members that there will be zero tolerance for what they what the administration calls misinformation, which is to say that this insurance company can look for federal retaliation for having spoken the truth. Well, isn't socialism. Uh, not just spreading the wealth around, it's being able to spread the wealth to your pals and make sure your friends get the goodies. Oh, absolutely. I mean, the administration, they're great at rhetoric. That's their strong suit. And so they say they're against special interests, but that just means that their special interests aren't called special interests. Well, what do you think about Obama appointing all these czars who never had Senate confirmation? Again, it's circumventing the Constitution and it's circumventing the public because the Constitution is the vehicle that allows the public to determine what kind of laws they want to live under. And so if you can appoint people and call them czars instead of cabinet members, even though they may wield powers greater than the cabinet members, if you can do that, you've circumvented the Constitution and the Constitution can't protect us unless we first protect the Constitution. 
That is unless we vote against people who circumvent the Constitution, even if the particular policies that they vote for may may not be particularly objectionable in themselves. Well, why is anybody surprised Obama said that he wanted to fundamentally transform the United States of America. Well, I, I think no one believed that he meant what he was actually going to do. They may have thought this was just some political rhetoric, but everything in the man's past suggests that he is fundamentally opposed to the values and the procedures and the governing principles of this country. And so now they're shocked to discover that he is what he's always been, but wish they didn't bother to find out before voting. We're talking today with uh Doctor Thomas Sowell about his new book Dismantling America, and uh he has Obama has given us so many bad decisions. Uh, what, what's your comment about uh about uh bailing out the people who bought houses that they couldn't afford? it's unbelievable. What is unbelievable is not that the government would do that. because the governments do so many questionable things just for short run political advantage. What is what is incredible is there's so little criticism of it when the obvious objection is that why should I, who who never owned a house until I was 50 years old and have never owned a house that has a cost. some of these that we're bailing out, why should I have to pay for these people who went ahead and bought a house that they couldn't afford? That's right. That really annoys me as much as anything. My mother and father never owned a house, and the idea that you'd be a better citizen if somebody induced you to buy a house that you really couldn't afford is just an offensive idea. Well, that that notion that housing determines behavior. Goes back well over 100 years and it has defied over 100 years of evidence to the contrary. The the the it's certainly true that if you find a neighborhood with nice houses, chances are it will have a nice, have lower crime rates, it'll have better schools and so forth, but these, this is, this is the post hoc fallacy. I mean, uh uh people of a certain kind go to have certain kinds of houses and they have certain kinds of educational values. We're talking today with Doctor Thomas Sowell, uh, and you mentioned the book that uh when you were in your twenties, you were a little bit fascinated by the Marxist philosophy. Uh, what persuaded you that private enterprise was better than the government running the economy working for the government. You know, I was, I was still a Marxist after I had taken a course from Milton Friedman, but, uh, uh, within 3 months of going to work for the government, uh, I, I, I, I, I, I began to change because I realized that I was in the Labor Department that government agencies have their own priorities and to expect them to carry out policies. To benefit others when in fact their main purpose is to benefit themselves is just very unrealistic. Well, what about the whole idea that if government runs it, such as health care, it's going to cost less? I don't know what what the government runs that has ever cost less. You think government, uh, coming into it is a major reason for the extraordinary rise in tuition. You're on a college campus. Oh yes, my goodness, there have been studies that show for every dollar of government aid to education, tuition rises by 50 cents. So you, you, you, when you, when you start increasing government aid, it's like a dog chasing his tail. I mean he, he doesn't get any closer no matter how fast he runs. Well, they've unfortunately have sold a lot of people on this idea that uh the government running health care is going to save us all money as well as give us better health and uh now Obama's put a czar in front, uh, who's uh thinks the the British system is really great. Oh my goodness, I'm I'm staggered and I'm very disappointed in the American media because there's so much in the British media about what is wrong with their medical system. I mean, the women who, for example, who have had who have had their babies in British hospitals, not in the operating room, but in elevators and in the hallways and so forth, because they get neglected to the point where the baby's coming and there's nobody there to take care of them. Well, the, uh, I think the American people have caught on to what's wrong with Obamacare, uh, because, uh, I think Obama thought we were all going to like it after the law was passed, but it now appears that the majority of the American people really do want to repeal it. Well, I, I, I, I, I'm, I, I would even question whether he believed that or whether he simply said that because if you really believe that people are going to like this after the law was passed, you would have it go into effect certainly before the 2012 presidential election and perhaps. For the 2010 congressional elections, but in fact the law was written to go into effect after the 2012 election. So it's clearly he felt that this was something that he wanted to put in there and whether the people like it or not, there won't be much they can do about it if they don't only learn about it after he's been re-elected. Thomas Sowell, our special guest here on Eagle Forum Live. Phyllis Schlafly is with you 24/7, of course, at eagleforum.org, and more of this conversation continues next. Eagle Forum Education Center in Saint Louis is the headquarters of Eagle Forum's many educational activities. The center houses a large library of 20th century American history, a unique collection of DVDs and CDs, and extraordinary archives. Eagle Forum's publications include Education Reporter, bringing you important news about parents' rights and public school curriculum. Eagle Forum sponsors activities especially for college students and for teen eagles, including an. Annual Collegians Leadership summit held each summer in Washington DC. Eagle Forum sponsors two radio series, Phyllis Schlafly's 3-minute commentaries heard daily on 550 stations, and this Saturday live call-in program now heard on 75 stations. Both broadcasts are streamed on the Internet at Eagleforum.org. Eagle Forum, a conservative organization of dedicated Americans, invites you to visit our website at eagleforum.org. You've probably heard that all public schools are mandated to give reading tests, and many parents are worrying whether their children will pass. If you want to find out if your child's reading skills are all they should be, we invite you to give Eagle Forum's first reading test in the privacy of your own home. Any child who has finished first grade should be able to pass this test. It will enable you to find out if your child can really read or if he has been taught to memorize a few dozen frequently used words and then just guess at other words from the pictures. The page Eagle Forum's simple test will tell you whether your child is really reading. Don't let your child fall behind in school because he is a poor reader. Call 1-800-700-5228 and ask for our free reading test. That's 1-800-700-5228. And you can see Eagle Forum's first reading test on the website turboreader.com. Look up the website www.turboreader.com. Just about every week Phyllis Laffly takes questions and comments, but this week Phyllis is going the full hour with her special guest Thomas Sowe. Eagle Forum Live continues here again, Phyllis Schlafly. We're talking today with Doctor Thomas Sowell of the Hoover Institution in California, and I want to switch the subject a little bit to education. I know you're right on that and. In many of your books and uh the the misuse of words, for example, now they're trying to tell us that national standards are the way to go and of course the word social justice has become very trendy in the schools and tell us what that really means. Oh my, I, I must confess at the outset. That I am totally, it's totally beyond my ability to tell you what that phrase means because I have read books going back 100 years and nobody has ever defined it. Uh, I guess what what they have in mind is that uh all sorts of groups ought to be equally represented in all sorts of places, which, uh, which is particularly amazing to me after having spent decades studying ethnic and other groups around the world. Nowhere on this planet do I find groups that are the same. I mean, if, if, if, if black and white Americans, for example, were the same, they would be the only two groups on this planet that are the same. I mean, the northern Italians and Southern Italians aren't the same. The Scottish lowlands and lowlanders and the Scottish highlanders aren't the same. People in North Korea are not the same as people in South Korea. I mean, you can go through everywhere you go that there are different groups. You find incredible difference. You find differences. And alcoholism rates, infant mortality rates, you name it, there are differences, and yet so many of our policies and even our court decisions are based on the notion that if all the groups aren't the same in some respect, somebody else must be to blame. And uh well I think uh social justice in many cases has come to mean teaching the kids that they live in an unjust oppressive racist society and therefore they must organize under some community organizer and take power and wealth away from people who have it. Oh, absolutely, absolutely, and. You know, it's funny, uh, Doctor Soul, uh, not only have some of these words become bad, but it's funny the way the White House recognizes that the word stimulus has become a negative word because people don't believe the stimulus spending, uh, did stimulate any jobs, at least in private industry. That most of the evidence would justify substituting the word sedative for stimulus that I've done some research on this, and you can trace the banks to which on which the government dumped great sums of money and discovered that the following year they made substantially fewer loans than they made the previous year. And similarly in other areas where they've dumped all this money and the money just sits there. I mean right now both the banks and private industry as well as individuals have more money sitting idle than they have had in decades. Well, I think the money that did get spent got spent to create more government jobs. Oh, absolutely, not private enterprise jobs, no. And what the great problem is that the various policies of the administration. are making it more difficult to create private industry jobs, and the government jobs that they create, obviously the government doesn't create any wealth, so they take the wealth out of the private economy, use it to create the government jobs, but of course that means the private economy has less money to create jobs than they had before, and so there's no net increase in jobs. I wish, uh, uh, Doctor Sowe you talk a little bit about um your views about immigration and how uh we used to assimilate the immigrants into our society. Um, but, uh, they're not doing that now, and, uh, we, we hope that we would be a great country. I, I saw Marco Rubio saying on television that his father was a bartender and his wife was a waitress, his mother was a waitress and uh it was such a great country. Now he's running for the Senate. And uh America is such a great country where this can happen. He pointed out how that absolutely could not happen in the Cuba that he came from. Oh and Obama doesn't believe we're an exceptional unique country, not at all. And heaven knows he should he should have more reason than most people to be glad he was born here. Uh, the, the whole, the whole, you're right about the immigrants. I mean, people point out how all these millions of European immigrants were integrated into the society and so on. It's true, but it's also true that most of these groups did so by making great efforts, sometimes individual and sometimes organized efforts to assimilate to the American society. Today, not only is that not happening in the organizational sense, the organizations that exist to represent different groups, such as La Raza, for example, are doing their best to keep the foreigners foreign. A and and these activists have such gall that they, they have even opposed letting the parents of children, that is the Hispanic parents of Hispanic children, decide whether they want the kids taught in English or Spanish because they know the parents want their children taught in English because that's how they'll get ahead. And I remember, uh, actually it was during the Bush administration. I tried to get Congress, uh, to, uh, uh, say that the use of the bilingual education money coming from the federal government, uh, would be parents option and, well, everybody was against that they didn't want parents to have the option. That's right. Well, you know, this is part of the general arrogance that extends far beyond this issue. They want to be able to decide what is right and to the extent possible, cut the ordinary people out of out of the out of the loop. I mean that that's why these bills were passed with so in such a hurry, even when they're bills, they won't take place until years later, so it's not like they're hurrying to get the thing in operation. They're hurrying to get it passed before the rest of us can find out, and that really permeates everything that they say and do. Well, Nancy Pelosi was even pretty frank about that said we have to pass a bill and then you'll find out what's in it. That's right, and that that is the attitude. So many people think of the left as being for the common man. I've been on the left. I've studied the left. On the left is for the left making the decisions and being and having those decisions handed down to the rest of us where we can like it or lump it. Uh, one of the things that that I find really, um. Disturbing about President Obama is the way he wants to bow to world opinion and apologize for us around the world. Uh, would you, I know you've had a number of columns on that, uh, covered in your book, uh, Dismantling America, which is a wonderful new book, uh, uh, comment on that. We, we want to maintain our individual, uh, identity as the, the, the, the land of freedom and prosperity. Well, well, absolutely, but, but again this is a man who I don't believe has any faith in America as it is and who thinks our only redeeming feature is that can elect people like him to change us to what he thinks we ought to be. And I think this is part of that, um, Dinesh de Souza has, has argued that he really has a sort of third world, uh, mentality of envy and resentment of the United States, and my, my feeling is, is, is very much the same that, uh, this is not a man who loves this country. This is not a man who is dedicated to his values, and it's incredible to me that the American people could have elected such a man. To this, to the high office he has, which means he holds really our lives in his hands. without knowing what he not only without knowing what he was like for his track record, but disregarding what they do know about his past in order to invest him with what they imagined to be his good qualities. Well, he led a privileged life in in our country. He never had a real job. He talked about all these shovel ready jobs she she he never handled any shovels. Uh, one of, one of the, this, this goes beyond Obama, but one of the things that has amazed me is that uh people who are born in very humble circumstances, uh, have so so often been so dedicated to this country, and people who are given all sorts of privileges, including millionaires have turned against us. You know, right after 9/11 when there were all these, all these American flags were flying in various neighborhoods and homes and other places, I went out to the University of California at Berkeley. And on that entire campus, I did not see one American flag flying. The first American flag that I saw was on my way back from Berkeley when I was passing through a low income black neighborhood in Oakland. That's where I first saw an American flag flying. What what do you think would happen if we actually enforced our laws against illegal immigration? Would our crops rot in the field? We won't be able to eat strawberries anymore and the chicken plants will go out of business. Do you know what gets me is that we have had chronic agricultural surpluses that cost the taxpayers billions of dollars every year. And so even if, if the agricultural output went down, there isn't the slightest danger that we'd be without strawberries or anything else. Uh well, the, the, I, I think the two political parties do cooperate in winking their eyes at at this illegal immigration, you know, they've now admitted that the fence, the virtual fence was a billion dollar mistake. It won't work at all. Well, I don't think it was a mistake from their standpoint. It got the political pressure off them. And it was worth to spend a billion dollars worth of the taxpayers' money for that. Well I, I, I don't, I'm not at all convinced that they ever thought at the outset that this thing was going to work. Well, uh, one of our congressmen, the 11 from Iowa, Steve King, who was in the construction business before he had a real job before he went to Congress, uh, I, I saw him on, uh, C-SPAN showing how he would build a fence and how he would pour the concrete and had put the blocks in and he had, he had a model and it looked pretty. Simple. We could hire some of those people to build the fence. You, you know, it's not like building a fence is not some unprecedented problem. It's not rocket science. No, I mean, you know, I've seen the Berlin Wall. I saw the fence between China and Hong Kong before Hong Kong became part of China. And you just don't get over those kinds of fences, but they're they're serious about stopping you. Now if you're going to have a fence where you can easily run, run up the side of the fence and bolt right on over, well of course it's not going to be very effective, but that doesn't mean there are no effective fences. If there, if there were no effective fences, the entire population of Eastern Europe would probably have moved to Western Europe during the year of the Soviet Union. Good point. Today, Phyllis Schlafly and her special guest Thomas Soul are pre-recorded. Next week, of course, Eagle Forum Live returns to its regular format where we take questions and comments from around the country. Meantime, visit Phyllis online anytime at eagleforum.org. The Phyllis Schlafly report is a unique newsletter that is in its 42nd year of monthly publication. Phyllis Schlafly writes about topics that are so important to you, your family, and your family's future. You can request a sample report at any time. Recent issues on education include how to train our leaders to be conservative, the radical resolutions passed by the National Education Association, and liberal plans to subvert the US Constitution. Other reports cover such vital topics as what's happening. On college campuses, how the public schools are turning out liberals, the rising costs of tolerating illegal aliens, and Congress must curb activist judges. The Phyllis Schlafly report is the best bargain in print. It's full of useful information you can use to write your congressman and educate your friends. Get a free sample by calling 1-800-736-3202. That's 1-800-736-3202. or online, go to eagleforum.org. Are you concerned about border security or about the effect that millions of illegal aliens are having on illegal drugs, crime, disease, and healthcare costs? These are only some of the many subjects of national importance covered in the Phyllis Schlafly report, a monthly newsletter Phyllis has been writing for 42 years. The Phyllis Schlafly report covers a lot of other subjects too, such as education, both public school and college, court cases, family and feminism, health care, and United Nations treaties. The Phyllis Schlafly report always gives you more facts and fewer words than anything in print. This newsletter is also useful to carry with you to. Share with your friends. You can get a free copy of the Phyllis Schlaffer report on a subject of your particular interest by calling Eagle Forum at 1-800-736-3202 or you can log on to Eagle Forum's website at eagleforum.org. That's eagleforum.org. Today Phyllis Schlafly and her special guest Thomas Soul are pre-recorded. Next week, of course, Eagle Forum Live returns to its regular format where we take questions and comments from around the country. Meantime, visit Phyllis online anytime at eagleforum.org. Now once again, Phyllis Schlafly. We're talking today with Doctor Thomas Soul and. I know that you've, you know what's going on with the universities. Do you see a change in the students, uh, the student body now from what it was when you started out teaching in colleges? Well, I haven't actually taught in about the last 30 years, but I think that's not, but I obviously did see some changes because I really, I started my academic career to be a teacher, not not to be a writer and researcher. Uh, but I saw enough changes between the time I first started in 1962 and in 1980 when I taught my last class that I realized that this was just no longer where I wanted to be. Well, they haven't read much of anything. They don't know much history. Oh my gosh, no, you, you can't, uh, you can't presuppose anything in teaching because, well, at least of all history, there are all sorts of places, I mean, we're talking prestigious places where you can graduate without a clue about the history of this country. Yes, I, I understand there's one California university where you can fulfill a history requirement by taking a course in the history of rock and roll. Yes, well, well, there are all kinds of these sort of boutique courses in highly specialized things, and they're very easy for the professors to teach because the professor, you know, does a doctoral dissertation on the on the history of winemaking in France. Well, he has a ton of material. It's far easier for him to teach a course on the history of winemaking in France than to teach a course, you know, on the history of Europe or on the history of the United States. Uh, Doctor Soul, uh, we've been talking about the, uh, great variety of subjects you deal with in your latest book, uh, Dismantling America, but I have to tell you my favorite one of your books is your one about intellectuals, and I, I have to ask you to give some of your choice remarks of what you think about intellectuals and their influence on our society. Well, the influence is the easiest to summarize, I think it has been largely negative. They have been part of this process which really set the stage for the dismantling of America. They've been Enormously critical of everything that has happened in this country. They've taken the sins of the human race, which are common around the world, and they've talked about them as if they're the peculiarities of our society. Uh virtually everything bad that has gone on in the history of this country has gone on to a worse extent than most other countries around the world, and yet you never. You never learn any of that. My gosh, one of the things they love to talk about is slavery in the United States and in. Oh, it's endless. They talk about it all the time. You would think that the only people who were ever enslaved were blacks who were enslaved by whites in the United States or at most in European society. Neither, I think most of the slaves in the history of the world were neither black nor white. They were the people who were conquered in war, weren't they? They were. They were people who were who were abducted by pirates. There was slavery everywhere you found human beings, you found slavery. I mean there was a time, not that. Centuries ago when people could not conceive of a world without slavery. I mean, the Christian monasteries in Europe, the Buddhist monasteries in Asia had slaves. Even in the ideal society in the novel Utopia, utopia had slaves. They couldn't even conceive of even an ideal society without slaves. What was peculiar about the United States and about Western civilization was that this was the first and for a long time the only civilization that turned against it and destroyed it, but that we never hear. Well, this thing about, uh, crying about the past, uh, past sins, uh, you know, I, uh, spent 10 years of my life fighting the Equal Rights Amendment, and I can't tell you how many times I was in a debate, uh, uh, before a legislative hearing or elsewhere, and my opponent is still crying about the time when women didn't have the right to vote in this country. Now at my advanced age, I don't even know anybody who can remember that time, but they're still whining about it. Oh yeah, and the other thing too is that a great injustice to your ancestors is not necessarily a great injustice to you. If you look at the history of Western Europe and Western Europe became literate because the Romans conquered it. Now nobody considers the Romans sweethearts. I mean, they slaughtered people by the thousands. They oppressed the people they conquered and so forth, but the net result for today's Western Europeans is that their society's got a huge advantage over Eastern Europe because their languages, for example, had Roman letters centuries before the languages of Eastern Europe had letters. And and and you see that reflected to this day, and I think quite similarly here in the United States there's no question that people who were brought in bondage to Africa, from Africa here to be mistreated and so forth, they suffered a lot. But of course the reason the black population in the United States is the most prosperous black population in the world was because of the injustices done to our ancestors. Uh, we're talking today with Doctor Thomas Sowell. Uh, let me ask you this question all the polls show that self-identified conservatives outnumber liberals, self-identified liberals about 2 to 1, uh, but yet we've elected the most left-wing president in history. That doesn't make sense. How did that happen? I, I think in in a few words, the ineptness of the Republican Party. I mean, it's like, it's like it's like when you're dealt the high cards in the game and your opponent wins it. Well, that, that's, that's the way it is. Well, we, we, uh, we hope that the elections are going to change that because, uh, the remedies, I think the remedies for our problems are there in the Constitution. And that's apparently the liberals are very much annoyed when Tea Partiers hold up copies of the Constitution and say we have to get back to the Constitution, but that's really what we do need to do. Absolutely, because that's really what enables us to be a self-governing country. And freedom Now getting back to, uh, foreign policy, uh, you seem very concerned about Iran getting nuclear bombs. What about that? I can't understand why other people aren't concerned. I mean, after 9/11, we understand what the terrorists are like and to think of those same people who did 9/11 as having nuclear weapons or to send a chill through every American. And the other thing is we, it's not like the Soviets having nuclear weapons because the Soviets, whatever their faults, were not suicidal. And they knew that if they bombed New York, we would wipe Moscow off the face of the earth. The people in Iran don't care about the people who run Iran, the people who live there care. The people who have dictatorial power in Iran are fanatics. And if they, if they can wipe out New York and Chicago and Los Angeles and we wipe out Tehran, they're, they've, they're coming out ahead of the game as far as they're concerned. Well, they teach that suicide is great, that's your key to heaven. That's right. So I mean you can't, you cannot deter suicide bombers, and, and so suicide bombers with nuclear weapons are just the most frightening thing in the world. Do you think that, ah, ah, what Obama's doing is taking us into a European style socialism? Yes, And why is that so awful? Well, well, first of all, you have to go through all the things that are wrong with European style socialism. They don't have, they typically have higher unemployment rates than we do, unemployment that lasts longer than we do. The medical systems run by government are far, far inferior to ours, and so on. But I think the thing that really is the point of no return is a nuclear Iran because. You know, it took only 2 bombs for Japan to surrender at the end of World War II. I think the Japanese were a lot tougher then than we are now. I do not see this country doing anything other than surrendering. I mean, it may be inconceivable to most people that the United States would ever surrender, but it was inconceivable that Japan would surrender. It had never surrendered in its whole history. Um And yet just those two bombs did it. Iran, the fact that we may have, you know, 100 bombs or 100 times as many bombs as Iran means absolutely nothing if they're willing to die and we're not. Uh, you do, uh, make an interesting note that liberals are generally more articulate in putting forth their policies than conservatives, so they come up with all these smart phrases that sound good. Uh do you have any advice for conservatives who want to do a better job of communicating other than passing around your books, of course. I think one of the things you first have to have to I know that being articulate is important in politics. I'm, I'm appalled at how little effort and thought Republicans seem to put into what they, what they say during election campaigns. I mean, I was appalled, you know, I think of Bob Dole having 45 minutes on the air and just frittering it away, not addressing any of the problems. Uh, you know, you can't do something unless you know what it is you want to do, and I think that's one of the things that ought to be at the top of their list, but I see no sign that they're improving. Thomas Soul, our special guest here on Eagle Forum Live. Phyllis Schlafly is with you 24/7, of course, at eagleforum.org, and more of this conversation continues next. The biggest scandal in education today is allowing children to be promoted from grade to grade and even graduate from high school without ever learning how to read. Schools should teach kids how to read in the first grade by a real phonics method. Parents can be easily fooled because first graders are able to memorize a few dozen one syllable words, and then the books use those same words over and over again. How can you tell if your child is really reading or if he's just reciting a few words he's memorized and guess. At others, Phyllis Schlafly has developed a simple reading test you can use at home to find out whether your child can actually read or is just guessing at the words. Make sure your son or daughter has every chance to succeed. Don't leave it up to the schools to teach your child this vital skill. Order your free reading test by calling 1-800-700-5228. That's 1-800-700-5228, or see this test online at turboreader.com. Are you worried about the future of America and the kind of country your children will be living in? Do you think that one person cannot make a difference, so why bother to write your representatives? If you think that you need to join Eagle Forum, a national organization of conservative and pro-family men and women who have learned how to participate and be effective in the. Process of self government and public policy making. Eagle Forum's achievements prove that citizen volunteers can affect government policies in Congress, state legislatures, city councils and school boards. Our members have been successful in electing candidates at every level and in persuading them to vote for good policies after they are elected. It's obvious there's much more to do, and that's why we need your help. You can get a free sample of our materials by writing Eagle Forum, Alton, Illinois 62002. That's Eagle Forum, Alton, Illinois 62002 or by going to our website eagleforum.org. That's eagleforum.org. Welcome back to Eagle Forum Live. This is Phyllis Schlafly, and we're continuing with the great economist Thomas Sowell explaining why Republicans are often very inarticulate in explaining what they want to do. I remember back during the 1994 government shutdown when the plain fact was that the Republican Congress had voted more money than the government had had before, and so there was no shortage of money to run the government. And yet when when Clinton began pushing the idea that Republicans have caused the government to shut down by not giving them enough money, the Republicans came on the air and they started talking about OMB statistics versus CBO statistics. Well, good heavens, man, you need to come on the air and say no, we gave him the money. He chose not to do it and he's lying. I mean people can understand that, but if you want to go all around and talk, talk Washington speak. You can't expect the public to understand what you're talking about. Well, I remember meeting with the Republican leadership at that time, and, and I said, uh, well, what is your plan B if Clinton doesn't do what you expect, and they didn't have any Plan B. I want to ask you another question. We want more transparency, as Obama said, but we, uh, some people have urged that all congressional hearings and court proceedings and arguments be televised, but you don't think that's a helpful idea, right? If I, if I had my way, I would cut out the C-SPAN coverage of Congress, these, these are, these are staged events. These, these are not sort of candid camera kinds of looks at how Congress is working. The Congress, the people in Congress know that the cameras on and they behave and say things in front of the camera that have nothing to do with what they're going to do when they make their backroom deals. And so this is a charade for the sake of the public. Uh, well, um, and I don't think people would get much out of the arguments before the courts either. I kind of agree with you on that, especially there because unless you know the legal framework, you have no idea. I mean, especially an appellate court. I mean. Be a trial court you could figure out who's guilty and who's innocent, but an appellate court is not, not, not taking that, making that decision. They're deciding whether the rules of the game were played when this trial was held, and unless you happen to know what the procedure should have been, you have no way of knowing whether what was done was good, bad, or indifferent. Well, uh, you talk about need, uh, need some, uh, clever words to describe some of these people who are destroying our heritage. My word for the judges is supremacists because they really think they really do think they're supreme over the other branches of government and and the people. What about that? They tragically they are so long as nobody objects. I mean, uh, uh, you know. Would you, would you agree with me that that uh the the founding fathers uh plan for the judiciary to be the least powerful branch of government, but the judges have made it the most powerful because they're deciding all these major issues. Oh, absolutely. There's there's a judge who's decided that firefighters can't be promoted in in New York because they don't have the right demographic mix of people who passed the test. Now, no one gave him that power, but unless someone challenges it, uh, you know, people like that are not going to stop unless they get stopped. And yet the idea has gotten out there that to be against judges is to be against the rule of law. Well, the rule of law was never meant to be simply the rule of judges. You have another interesting book called uh Economic Facts and Fallacies. What are these, uh, a couple of these fallacies that people have fallen for? Oh my heavens, there is the notion that Oh, I guess tax cuts for the rich are one of those, uh, the, the that uh. When when the taxes are cut, the benefits, benefits go simply to the rich. And of course there's a lot of confusion between tax rates and tax revenues. Tax rates can go down and tax rates while tax revenues go up. And in fact, many of the tax rate cuts beginning in the 1920s and during the Kennedy administration and the Reagan and And Bush administrations have in fact brought in more revenue to the federal government because people no longer keep their money in tax shelters. They invest it in the economy and that then causes the economy to grow and the government to make more taxes to collect more tax revenues, even though the rate of taxation has been lowered. But you never hear that. You hear that it's tax cuts for the rich. Uh, well, back to your one of your favorite subjects, the what's the matter with the intellectuals, uh, isn't one of the additional things that matter with them is that, uh, there, there's no, um, there's no punishment in the, in the whole system when they make wrong decisions and encourage bad policies. Oh absolutely. You can advocate policies as was done in France in the 30s that end up undermining the nation's national defense so that France, which had fought for four long years against the German invaders during the First World War, collapsed after six weeks of fighting in the Second World War. But there's no intellectual who could be punished for that. That was just one of the things that happened, and certainly academics can't be punished if they turn out people from the universities who graduate, not understanding of the history of the country, the nature of constitutional government, or any of the other things that they need in order to be decent citizens. Well, if you build a fence and it falls down, I guess you could be sued for faulty work. Yeah, but it's virtually impossible to sue an intellectual for faulty work. You can't even fire a faculty member who advocates policies that produce financial ruin for the college. Uh, you, of course, are an economist. Uh, uh, what do you think about, uh, Nixon saying we're all Keynesians now, and, uh, I understand that the, uh, the British and now have specifically rejected Keynesianism. Oh heavens, I, I think a lot of people have rejected it. When, when Obama was president elect, he was saying that we all know that we have to spend more in accordance with Keynesian theories. A group of a large number of economists in fact took out full page ads, many of them by economists with Nobel Prizes in economics, saying no, we don't have to do that. But, ah, no, I unfortunately Richard Nixon would say almost anything if it was politically expedient. Uh, one question we hadn't gotten around to is what do you think about the danger of the Muslims today? Very great danger and what is more dangerous. is that we dare not speak it as Juan Williams discovered recently on NPR, but in many of the countries of Europe, merely to warn about the dangers from the extremists among the Muslims is the court being prosecuted under hate speech laws. I mean, I think that that sort of thing will undoubtedly come to this country if Obama gets a second term. Well, whatever happened to all this diversity people were one of those other fraudulent words diversity on a college campus means black leftists, white leftist, uh, female leftists, and Hispanic leftists. I mean that's diversity. But diversity of ideas, and after all, the university exists for ideas, not not for demographic representation, but but diversity of ideas is virtually unknown at most of the college and university campuses in the country. Uh, you have so many important books. Uh, which one would you, uh, uh, recommend for the general public? Uh, you do have a very you have a book that has basic in the title. It's basic economics, yes, it's it's, it's it's the one that has sold the most copies here and has been translated into the most languages overseas. And it gives people a basic understanding of what economics are all about without graphs, without equations, and without jargon. How about without math? How about math? No. No math. So there's there's one, there's one arithmetic, but uh if you if you can master additional subtraction, you're home free. Uh, we've certainly had an interesting conversation with Doctor Thomas Sowell of, uh, the Hoover Institution. He's written many books. I recommend them all. Uh, his latest book is called Dismantling America. It's a lot of his common sense logic to, uh. Uh, explain what's going on in language that the average voter can understand. I recommend it highly. Uh, also his other books, the one on intellectuals and society and the one on basic economics. Uh, thank you so much, Doctor Soul, for being with us today. We appreciate your time. Keep up the good work, keep writing. Thank you very much for having me. Of course you can join Phyllis anytime 24/7 on Eagleforum.org. All the radio programs, they're archived on Eagleforum.org, so be sure to join us there. And of course Phyllis has some more thoughts next right here on Eagle Forum Live. Eagle Forum Education Center in Saint Louis is the headquarters of Eagle Forum's many educational activities. The center houses a large library of 20th century American history, a unique collection of DVDs and CDs, and extraordinary archives. Eagle Forum's publications include Education Reporter, bringing you important news about parents' rights and public school curriculum. Eagle Forum sponsors activities especially for college students and for teen eagles, including an. Annual Collegians Leadership summit held each summer in Washington DC. Eagle Forum sponsors two radio series, Phyllis Schlafly's 3-minute commentaries heard daily on 550 stations, and this Saturday live call-in program now heard on 75 stations. Both broadcasts are streamed on the internet at eagleforum.org. Eagle Forum, a conservative organization of dedicated Americans, invites you to visit our website at eagleforum.org. I want to thank Doctor Thomas Sowell for joining us today on Eagle Farm Live. He is one of the country's great scholars, a national treasure, and a reliable guide to help us separate rhetoric from reality. His ability is absolutely critical at this juncture in our national history. I highly recommend all of his books as well as his syndicated column. If everyone would read a couple of his books, a lot fewer people would be misled by smooth talking politicians. You can find a link to his latest book Dismantling America at the Eagle Farm website. That's egoforum.org. Be sure to join Phyllis next week. Did you know that one of the pilgrim ships that was captured by Muslim pirates were sold into slavery in Morocco? A historian will share some stories of the past that still affect us today right here on Eagle Forum Live.