Phil, welcome to Eagle Forum live, and here's your host, Phyllis Schlafly, we
are very excited to have with us today. Dr Thomas Sowell, distinguished economist, social critic and political commentator. Dr Sowell is a senior fellow on public policy at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University.
This is a special Eagle Forum live with Phyllis Schlafly and, of course, her special guest today, Thomas Sowell. They have the whole hour. So please, we're not taking questions and comments from listeners today. Our regular format continues next week, right here on Eagle Forum love,
even informed citizens sometimes have a hard time getting through the fog of political rhetoric to decide if government policies are good or bad. They can get a lot of help from the writing of today's guest. He investigates the facts and examines similar policies, and then he applies common sense and logic. Dr Thomas Sowell is the author of more than 30 books, and we're going to talk today about his most recent book called dismantling America, which is a collection of columns that showcase his views on political, cultural, economic and legal issues. Welcome Dr soul, and tell us what is the meaning of the title of your newest book.
I think that the current administration is doing more than simply passing policies that are very questionable in themselves. What they're doing is changing the whole procedure by which the American government operates. I think that's going to do long run damage, even if the policies themselves get repealed. For example, this practice of passing enormously large and far reaching bills without any opportunity for the public to know what's in them, or in some cases for even most members of Congress to know what's in them, things like the waivers, for example, they can give to certain companies from the provisions of the new health care law. Well, the ability to give waivers is the ability to withhold waivers, and therefore to punish people who dare to speak out one on one. Insurance company recently said that they were going to have to raise premiums because of the Obamacare legislation. Well, they were immediately told by one of the Cabinet members that there will be zero deep, zero tolerance for what they could what the administration calls misinformation, which is to say that the insurance company can look for federal retaliation for having spoken the truth.
Well, isn't socialism not just spreading the wealth around, it's being able to spread the wealth to your pals and make sure your friends get the goodies.
Oh, absolutely. I mean the administration, they're great at rhetoric. That's their strong suit, and so they say they're against special interests, but that just means of the their special interests aren't called special interests.
Well, what do you think about Obama point appointing all these czars who never had Senate confirmation
that again, it's circumventing the Constitution and it's circumventing the public, because the Constitution is the vehicle that allows the public to determine what kind of laws they want to live under. And so if you can appoint people and call them czars instead of cabinet members, even though they may wield powers greater than the cabinet members, if you can do that, you've circumvented the Constitution. And the Constitution can't protect us unless we first protect the Constitution, that is, unless we vote against people who circumvent the Constitution, even if the particular policies that they vote for may not be particularly objectionable in themselves.
Well, why is anybody surprised Obama said that he wanted to fundamentally transform the United States of America?
Well, I think no one believed that he meant what he was actually going to do, either they may have thought this was just some political rhetoric, but everything in the man's past suggests that he is fundamentally opposed to the values and the procedures and the governing principles of this country, and so now they're shocked to discover that he is what he's always been, but which they didn't bother to find out before voting.
We're talking today with Dr Thomas Sowell about his new book dismantling America, and he has Obama has given us so many bad decisions. What's your comment about, about bailing out the people who bought houses that they couldn't afford?
It's It's unbelievable. What is unbelievable is not that the government would do that, because the government's do so many questionable things just for short run political advantage. What is it? What is incredible is their solar. Little criticism of it, when the obvious objection is that, why should I, who never owned a house until I was 50 years old and have never owned a house that is as costly as some of these that we're bailing out? Why should I have to pay for these people who went ahead and bought a house that they couldn't afford.
That's right, that really annoys me, as much as anything. My mother and father never owned a house, and the idea that you'd be a better citizen if somebody induced you to buy a house that you really couldn't afford is just an offensive idea.
Well, that notion that housing determines behavior goes back well over 100 years, and it is defied over 100 years of evidence to the contrary the house. It's certainly true that if you find a neighborhood with nice houses, chances are it will have a nice have lower crime rates, it'll have better schools and so forth. But these, this is, this is the post hoc fallacy. I mean, people of a certain kind go to have certain kinds of houses, and they have certain kinds of educational values.
We're talking today with Dr Thomas Sowell, and you mentioned the book that when you were in your 20s, you were a little bit fascinated by the Marxist philosophy. What persuaded you that private enterprise was better than the government running the economy,
working for the government? Oh, you know, I was, I was still a Marxist after I had taken a course from Milton Friedman, but within three months of going to work for the government, I began to change because I realized that I was in the Labor Department, that government agencies have their own priorities, and to expect them to carry out policies that benefit others, when in fact their main purpose is to benefit themselves, is just a very unrealistic
Well, what about the whole idea that if government runs it, such as health care, it's going to cost less?
I don't know What? What? What the government runs that has ever cost less.
You think government coming into it is a major reason for the extraordinary rise in tuition you're on a college campus.
Oh yes, my goodness, there been studies that show for every dollar of government aid to education, tuition rises by 50 cents. So you, when you, when you start increasing government aid, it's like a dog chasing his tail. I mean, he doesn't get any closer, no matter how fast he runs.
Well, they've, unfortunately, have sold a lot of people on this idea that the government running health care is going to save us all money as well as give us better health and now Obama's put a czar in front who thinks the British system is really great.
Oh, my goodness, I'm staggered, and I'm very disappointed in American media, because there's so much in the British media about what is wrong with their medical system. I mean the women who, for example, who have had, who've had their babies in British hospitals, not in the operating room, but in elevators and in the hallways and so forth, because they get neglected to the point where the baby's coming and there's nobody there to take care of them.
Well, the I think the American people have caught on to what's wrong with Obamacare, because I think Obama thought we were all going to like it after the law was passed, but it now appears that the majority of the American people really do want to repeal it.
Well, I, I'm I would even question whether he believed that or whether he simply said that, because if you really believe that people are going to like this after the law was passed, you would have it go into effect, certainly before the 2012 presidential election and perhaps before the 2010 congressional elections. But in fact, the law was written to go into effect after the 2012 election. So it's clearly he felt that this was something he wanted put in there, and whether the people like it or not, there won't be much they can do about it, if they'd only learn about it after he's been reelected.
Thomas soul, our special guest here on Eagle Forum live Phyllis. Schlafly is with you. 24/7, of course, at Eagle forum.org, and more of this conversation continues next. You. You.
Eagle Forum Education Center in St Louis is the headquarters of Eagle Forum's many educational activities. The center houses a large library of 20th Century American history, a unique collection of DVDs and CDs and extraordinary archives. Eagle Forum's publications include education reporter bringing you important news about parents rights and public school curriculum. Eagle Forum sponsors activities, especially for college students and for teen eagles, including an annual collegians Leadership Summit held each summer in Washington, DC. Eagle Forum sponsors two radio series, Phyllis, Schlafly, three minute commentaries heard daily on 550 stations, and this Saturday live call in program now heard on 75 stations. Both broadcasts are streamed on the internet at Eagle forum.org, Eagle Forum, a conservative organization of dedicated Americans, invites you to visit our website@eagleforum.org
you've probably heard that all public schools are mandated to give reading tests, and many parents are worrying whether their children will pass. If you want to find out if your child's reading skills are all they should be, we invite you to give Eagle Forum's first reading test in the privacy of your own home. Any child who has finished first grade should be able to pass this test. It will enable you to find out if your child can really read, or if he has been taught to memorize a few dozen frequently used words and then just guess at other words from the pictures on the page Eagle Forum. Simple test will tell you whether your child is really reading. Don't let your child fall behind in school because he is a poor reader. Call 1-800-700-5228, and ask for our free reading test. That's 1-800-700-5228 and you can see Eagle Forum's first reading test on the website, turboreader.com look up the website, www.turboreader.com you host.
Just about every week, Phyllis Schlafly takes questions and comments, but this week, Phyllis is going the full hour with her special guest, Thomas Sowell Eagle, forum live continues here again. Phyllis Schlafly,
we're talking today with Dr Thomas Sowell of the Hoover Institution in California, and I want to switch the subject a little bit to education. I know you write on that and in many of your books and the misuse of words, for example, now they're trying to tell us that national standards are the way to go. And of course, the word social justice has become very trendy in the schools, and tell us what that really means.
Oh, my, I must confess at the outset that I am totally it's totally beyond my ability to tell you what that phrase means, because I have read books going back 100 years, and nobody has ever defined it. I guess what the what they have in mind is that all sorts of groups ought to be equally represented in all sorts of places, which which is particularly amazing to me after having spent decades studying ethnic and other groups around the world, nowhere on this planet do I find groups that are the same. If Black and White Americans, for example, were the same, they would be the only two groups on this planet that are the same. I mean, the northern Italians and southern Italians aren't the same. The Scottish lowlands and lowlanders and Scottish Highlanders are the same. People in North Korea are not the same as people in South Korea. I mean, you can go through everywhere you go that there are different groups. You find incredible differences. You find differences in alcoholism rates, infant mortality rates, you name it. There are differences. And yet, so many of our policies and even our court decisions are based on the notion that if all the groups aren't the same in some respect, somebody else must be to blame.
And well, I think social justice in many cases, has come to mean teaching the kids that they live in an unjust, oppressive, racist society. Yes, yes, and therefore they must organize under some community organizer and take power and wealth away from people who have
it. Oh, absolutely, absolutely.
And, you know, it's funny. Dr Sowell, not only have some of these words become bad, but it's funny the way the White House recognizes that the word stimulus has become a negative word because people don't believe the stimulus spending did stimulate any jobs, at least in private industry.
Well, I think that most of the evidence would justify substituting the word sedative for stimulus that i. I've done some research on this, and you can trace the banks to which, which on which the government dumped great sums of money, and discovered that the following year they made substantially fewer loans than they made the previous year. And similarly, in other other areas where they've dumped all this money, and the money just sits there. I mean, right now, both the banks and private industry as well as individuals, have more money sitting idle than they have had in decades.
Well, I think the money that did get spent got spent to create more government jobs. Oh, absolutely not private enterprise jobs,
no. And what the great problem is that the various policies of the administration are making it more difficult to create private industry jobs and the government jobs that they create. Obviously, the government doesn't create any wealth, so they take the wealth out of the private economy use it to create the government jobs. But of course, that means the private economy has less money to create jobs than they had before, and so there's no net increase in jobs.
I wish, Dr Sowell, you'd talk a little bit about your views about immigration and how we used to assimilate the immigrants into our society, but they're not doing that now, and we we hoped that we would be a great country. I saw Marco Rubio saying on television that his father was a bartender and his wife was a waitress, his mother was a waitress, and it was such a great country. Now he's running for the Senate and Mayor. America such a great country where this can happen? He pointed out how that absolutely could not happen in the Cuba that he came from. Oh, absolutely. And Obama doesn't believe we're an exceptional, unique country,
not at all. And heaven knows, he should have more reason than most people to be glad he was born here. You're right about the immigrants. I mean, people point out how all these millions of European immigrants were integrated into society and so on. It's true, but it's also true that most of these groups did so by making great efforts, sometimes individual and sometimes organized efforts, to assimilate to the American society today, not only is that not happening in the organizational sense, the organizations that exist, who represent different groups, such as La Raza, for example, are doing their best to keep the foreigners foreign, and these activists have such gall that they have even opposed letting the parents of children, that is the Hispanic parents of Hispanic children, decide whether they want the kids taught in English or Spanish, because they know the parents want their children taught in English because that's where how they'll get ahead.
I remember, actually, was during the Bush administration, I tried to get Congress to say that the use of the bilingual education money coming from the federal government would be parents option. And well, everybody was against that. They didn't want parents to have the option.
That's right. Well, you know, this is part of the general arrogance. This extends far beyond this issue, they want to be able to decide what is right, and to the extent possible, cut the ordinary people out of the out of the out of the loop. I mean, that that's why these bills were passed with so in such a hurry, even when their bills they won't take place until years later. So it's not like they're hurrying to get the thing in operation. They're hurrying to get it passed before the rest of us can find can find out. And that really permeates everything that they say and do.
Well, Nancy Pelosi was even pretty frank about that. Said, say, we have to pass a bill, and then you'll find out what's in it.
That's right, and that that is the attitude so many people think of the left as being for the common man. I've been on the left. I've studied the left. The left is for the left, making the decisions and being and having those decisions handed down to the rest of us where we can like it or lump it.
One of the things that I find really disturbing about President Obama is the way he wants to bow to world opinion and apologize for us around the world. Would you, I know you've had a number of columns on that covered in your book dismantling America, which is a wonderful new book comment on that we we want to maintain our individual identity as the land of freedom and prosperity.
Well, absolutely. But again, this is a man who I don't believe has any faith in America as it is, and who thinks our only redeeming feature is it can elect people like him to change us to what he thinks we ought to be. You. And I think this is point of that Dinesh D'Souza has argued that he really has the sort of third world mentality of envy and resentment of the United States. And my feeling is very much the same, that this is not a man who loves this country. This is not a man who dedicated to his values. And it's incredible to me that the American people could have elected such a man to this to the high office he has which which means he holds, really our lives in his hands, without knowing what he not only not without knowing what he was like from his track record, but disregarding what they do know about his past in order to invest him with their what they imagine to be his good quality.
Well, he led a privileged life in our country. He never had a real job. Yeah, he talked about all these shovel ready jobs, says Sheena, she he never handled any shovels.
Tom, one of the this is this goes beyond Obama, but one of the things that is amazed me is that people who were born in very humble circumstances have so so often been so dedicated to this country, and people who are given all sorts of privileges, including in millionaires, have turned against us. You know, when I right after 911 when there were all these, all these American flags were flying in various neighborhoods and homes and other places, I went out to the University of California at Berkeley, and on that entire campus, I did not see one American flag flying. The first American flag that I saw was on my way back from Berkeley when I was passing through a low income black neighborhood in Oakland. That's where I first saw an American flag flying.
What do you think would happen if we actually enforced our laws against illegal immigration? Would our crops rot in the field? We won't be able to eat strawberries anymore, and the chicken plants will go out of business.
Do you know what gets me is that we have had chronic agricultural surpluses that cost the taxpayers billions of dollars every year, and so even if agricultural output went down, there isn't the slightest danger that we'd be without strawberries or anything else.
Well, they the, I think the two political parties do cooperate in winking their eyes at this illegal immigration. You know, they've now admitted that the fence, the virtual fence was a billion dollar mistake. It won't work at all. Well, I don't
think it was a mistake from their standpoint. It got the political pressure off them, and it was worth to spend a billion dollars worth of the taxpayers money for that. Whether I don't, I'm not at all convinced that they ever thought in the at the outset that this thing was going to work?
Well, one of our congressmen, the one, one from Iowa, Steve King, who was in the construction business before he had a real job, before he went to Congress, I show I saw him on C span, showing how he would build a fence and how he would pour the concrete, and had put the blocks in, and he had, he had a model, and it looked pretty simple. We could hire some of those people to build the fence.
You You know, it's not like building a fence is not, not, not some unprecedented problem. It's not rocket science. No. I mean, you know, I've seen the Berlin Wall. I saw the fence between China and Hong Kong before Hong Kong became part of China, and you just don't get over those kinds of fences. But sure they're serious about stopping you. Now, if you're going to have a fence where you can easily run it, run up the side of the fence and bolt right on over, well, of course, it's not going to be very effective. But that doesn't mean there are no effective fences. If there, if there were no effective fences, the entire population of Eastern Europe would probably have moved to Western Europe during the year of the Soviet Union.
Good point today, Phyllis Schlafly and her special guest Thomas Sowell, are pre recorded next week. Of course, Eagle Forum live returns to its regular format, where we take questions and comments from around the country. Meantime, visit fill us online anytime@eagleforum.org you
the Phyllis Schlaf. Report is a unique newsletter that is in its 42nd year of monthly publication Phyllis Schlafly writes about topics that are so important to you, your family and your family's future, you can request a sample report at any time. Recent issues on education include how to train our leaders to be conservative, the radical resolutions passed by the National Education Association and liberal plans to subvert the US Constitution. Other reports cover such vital topics as what's happening on college campuses, how the public schools are turning out liberals, the rising costs of tolerating illegal aliens and Congress must curb activist judges. The Phyllis Schlafly report is the best bargain in print. It's full of useful information you can use to write your congressman and educate your friends. Get a free sample by calling 1-800-736-3202 that's 1-800-736-3202 or online, go to eagleforum.org
Are you concerned about border security, or about the effect that millions of illegal aliens are having on illegal drugs, crime, disease and health care costs. These are only some of the many subjects of national importance covered in the Phyllis Schlafly report, a monthly newsletter Phyllis has been writing for 42 years. The Phyllis Schlafly report covers a lot of other subjects too, such as education, both public school and college, court cases, family and feminism, health care and United Nations treaties. The Phyllis Schlafly report always gives you more facts and fewer words than anything in print. This newsletter is also useful to carry with you, to share with your friends. You can get a free copy of the Phyllis Schlafly report on a subject of your particular interest by calling Eagle Forum at 1-800-736-3202 or you can log on to Eagle Forum's website at Eagle forum.org That's Eagle forum.org you you
today, Phyllis Schlafly and her special guest, Thomas Sowell, are pre recorded next week. Of course, Eagle Forum live returns to its regular format where we take questions and comments from around the country. Meantime, visit Phyllis online anytime@eagleforum.org Now, once again, Phyllis Schlafly,
we're talking today with Dr Thomas Sowell, and I know that you've you know what's going on with the universities? Do you see a change in the students, the student body now, from what it was when you started out teaching in colleges.
Well, I haven't actually taught in about the last 30 years, but I think that's not but what I obviously did see some changes. Because I really I started my academic career with to be a teacher, not not to be a writer and researcher, but I saw enough changes between the time I first started in 1962 and in 1980 when I taught my last class that I realized that this was just no longer where I wanted to be.
Well, they haven't read much of anything. They don't know much history.
Oh my gosh, no. You, you can't, you can't presuppose anything in teaching, because, well, and least of all history, there are all sorts of places. I mean, we're talking prestigious places where you can graduate without a clue about the history of this country.
Yes, I understand. There's one California University where you can fulfill the history requirement by taking a course in the history of rock and roll?
Yes, well, there are all kinds of these sort of boutique courses and highly specialized things, and they're very easy for the professors to teach, because the professor, you know, does a doctoral dissertation on the hit on the history of winemaking in France. Well, he has a ton of material. It's far easier for him to teach a course on the history of wine making in France, than to teach a course you know, on the history of Europe or on the history of the United States.
Dr Sowell, we've been talking about the great variety of subjects you deal with in your latest book, dismantling America. But I have to tell you my favorite one of your books is your one about intellectuals. And I have to ask you to give some of your choice remarks of what you think about intellectuals and their influence on our society.
Well, the influence is the easiest to summarize. I think it has been largely negative. They have been part of this process which really set the stage for the dismantling of America. They've been enormously critical of everything that has happened in this country. They've taken the sins of the human race, which are common around the world, and they've talked about them as if they're the peculiarities of our society. Of virtually everything bad that is going on in the history of this country has gone on to a worse extent and more. Most other countries around the world, and yet you never learn, you never learn any of that. My gosh, one of the things they love to talk about is slavery in the United States, well and in